
--- PAGE 131 ---
2025-2026 Ambrose University Academic Calendar 
 
119 
 
Course Frequency 
The frequency of a course is indicated with a letter code listed after the credit value. Courses offered annually are indicat ed with an A, 
courses offered biennially (every other year) with a B, and occasional courses are indicated with an O. Ambrose University reserves the 
right to cancel or revise any of the courses listed or to withdraw for the semester any course for which there is insufficient demand. 
Cross-Leveled Courses  
See Definitions. 
Cross-Listed Courses 
See Definitions. 
Educational Travel 
See Definitions.  
  
Laboratory (Lab)  
See Definitions.  
Tutorial  
See Definitions. 
 
 
ACCOUNTING 
ACC 200 Introduction to Financial Accounting (3-1T) A  
This course focuses on the accounting concepts and procedures involved in recording and reporting the organization and operat ion of 
business corporations. In addition to accounting principles, students also learn how to read and interpret financial statements. 
Prerequisite: BUS 100 
 
ACC 205 Introduction to Financial Accounting II (3-1T) A  
This course builds on the concepts and skills learned in introductory accounting and prepares the student for the more concep tual 
approach required for Intermediate Accounting. Students learn to apply the accounting framework and further develop skills for recording 
transactions and events and analyzing financial statements. In addition, generally accepted accounting principles are introdu ced and 
applied. Topics include revenue recognition, long-term liabilities, partnership accounting, shareholders’ equity, investments, notes to the 
financial statements, and the cash flow statement. 
Prerequisite: ACC 200 
 
ACC 210 Managerial Accounting (3) A 
Based on the concepts learned in ACC 200, this course explores the applications of accounting including information in the management 
context. Topics include: management planning and control, inventory and cost flow analysis, job order costing, standard co sts and 
variance analysis, budgeting, break-even analysis, relevant costs and decision-making. 
Prerequisite: ACC 200 
 
ACC 301 Intermediate Financial Accounting I (3-1T) B  
This course examines current conventional accounting standards with respect to asset and liability measurement and income 
determination with a particular emphasis on the asset side of the balance sheet. Specific topics include case, receivables, i nventories, 
short and long-term investments, intangible assets and capital assets. 
Prerequisite: ACC 200 
 
ACC 302 Intermediate Financial Accounting II (3-1T) B  
This course examines current accounting standards with a particular emphasis on the liability/equity side of the balance sheet and some 
specialized areas of financial statement presentation. Specific topics include short and long -term liabilities, statemen t of changes in 
financial position, pensions, leases, income taxes, earnings per share, and accounting changes and error corrections. 
Prerequisite: ACC 200 
 

--- PAGE 132 ---
2025-2026 Ambrose University Academic Calendar 
 
120 
 
ACC 310 Intermediate Managerial Accounting (3) B  
This course provides advanced coverage of managerial accounting concepts and the use of accounting information for management and 
decision making. Topics to be covered include accumulating and analyzing costs using various costing approaches and then, thr ough 
case studies, exploring the application of cost data in areas such as strategy formulation, organizational performance evalua tion, and 
pricing, revenue, and investment analysis. 
Prerequisite: ACC 210 
 
ACC 401 Advanced Financial Accounting (3) B 
This senior level accounting course analyzes the concepts and practices underlying financial reporting in complex areas such as business 
combinations and intercompany investments; joint ventures; translation of foreign currency transactions and financial s tatements; 
bankruptcy; partnerships; and nonprofit organizations. 
Prerequisite: ACC 301 and ACC 302 
 
ACC 403 Principles of Auditing (3) B 
Introduces students to the fundamental concepts and principles used by the Canadian auditing profession. It explores the role  of the 
auditor, as well as the legal and ethical environment of auditing. In addition to examining the methods and procedures used  in auditing 
and reporting with respect to financial statements, other topics to be covered include internal control and computerization, risk and 
materiality, and audit planning. 
Prerequisite: ACC 301 and ACC 302 
 
ACC 425 Introduction to Taxation (3-1T) B 
This course provides an introduction to personal and corporate Canadian income tax systems. The impact of taxes on business decisions 
will be examined. Students will be required to analyze personal and business tax problems and apply the concepts learned to r esolve 
these situations. 
Prerequisite: ACC 200 
 
ACC 495 Special Topics in Accounting (3) O 
Special studies in Accounting, as announced. 
Note: this course is normally taken by students who have completed at least 18 credits in BUS or ACC.  
 
ART 
ART 141 Drawing I (3–3L) O 
An introduction to the formal and creative language of drawing with an emphasis on improving technical drawing skills and dev eloping 
the ability to identify concepts related to visual perception and expression. 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
ART 143 Drawing II (3–3L) O 
A continuation of study of the formal and creative language of drawing with an emphasis on more advanced topics like colour t heory, 
conceptualizing and effectively communicating ideas visually, image generating and research, and working with advanced drawi ng 
techniques. 
Prerequisite: ART 141 or permission of the department 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
ART 200 Art History: Prehistory to Early Renaissance (3) B 
This course provides a chronological and historical survey examining painting, sculpture, and architecture of Western cultures beginning 
with prehistory to the fifteenth century. This course will focus on significant developments in the visual arts and their con nection to and 
reflection of the political, religious and social influences of the time. In addition, the course will consider how art can be interpreted through 
a Christian worldview. 
 
ART 201 Art History: Late Renaissance to Contemporary Art (3) B 
This course provides a chronological and historical survey examining painting, sculpture, and architecture of Western cultures beginning 
with the Renaissance to the present day. This course will focus on significant developments in the visual arts and their connection to and 
reflection of the political, religious, and social influences of the time. In addition, the course will consider how art can be understood 
through a Christian worldview. 
 

--- PAGE 133 ---
2025-2026 Ambrose University Academic Calendar 
 
121 
 
ASTRONOMY 
ASTR 120 Introduction to Astronomy (3) A 
A survey of modern astronomy and current views on the Universe, Solar System, and other fundamental cosmic phenomena. This course 
includes out-of-class tutorials and field trips including a trip to the Rothney Astrophysical Observatory. 
Note: Students can only earn credit for one of the following: ASTR 120 or SC 120. 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course.  
 
BEHAVIOURAL SCIENCE 
BHS 240 Research Methods (3-1.5L) A 
This course is an introduction to the concepts and processes of quantitative and qualitative research. Research processes include 
problem definition, designing a study, selection and development of theory, literature review, data collection, interpretation and analysis 
of data, and writing the research report. Students will develop research skills through the practical application of material covered in class 
and in the text readings. 
Prerequisite: Math 30-1 or Math 30-2, PS 121 or SO 121 
 
BHS 299 Special Topics in Behavioural Science (3) O 
Special studies in Behavioural Science, as announced. 
Prerequisite: Permission of the department 
 
BHS 304 Behavioural Science Education Travel Study (3) O  
This course provides an introduction to international community development incorporating the disciplines of community psychology and 
the sociology of development. It involves pre-reading assignments as well as post-travel written assignments that allow students to apply 
both theoretical and practical understandings of international community development. The practical component of the course i nvolves 
volunteering for two weeks at a Two- Thirds World site, where students learn about community development first-hand. One of the main 
aims of the course is to help empower students to contribute to positive social change in both local and international communities. 
 
BHS 310 Quantitative Methods for Social Sciences (3-2L) A 
This course is designed to give students a basic understanding of descriptive and inferential statistics. Emphasis is placed on practical 
application and students will learn to analyze and interpret basic statistical research. They will also learn to use c omputer software 
(jamovi) to analyze data. Lecture and laboratory components.  
Prerequisite: BHS 240  
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BHS 311 Qualitative Research (3) A  
This seminar style course examines the basic techniques for collecting, interpreting, and presenting qualitative data, drawing on research 
methodologies in areas such as ethnography, grounded theory, case studies, interviews, and focus groups. Special emph asis is given 
to the epistemological and ontological undercurrents to qualitative research methodology, and “lived experience,” or the proc ess of 
humans constructing meaning through social interaction. 
Prerequisite: BHS 240 and 3 credits in Psychology or Sociology at the 300-level 
Note: Students can only earn credit for one of the following: BHS 311 or BHS 415. 
 
BHS 320 BHS Field Placement 1 (3–3L) A 
Students complete a supervised field placement of 125 hours with a community or social agency closely related to the student’s interest 
and/or future plans. Readings, written assignments and group meetings will help students reflect on and integrate knowle dge with 
practical experience. 
Prerequisite: BHS 240 and completion of 45 credits. Restricted to students in BA: Behavioural Science (Concentration or Major) with a 
CGPA of not less than 2.0. Permission of the department required. 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BHS 350 Poverty in Western Society (3) B 
This course will provide an overview of the origins and understanding of poverty in western society from both a theoretical and theological 
standpoint. This will include a review of the sources of vulnerability that contribute to poverty and the psycho -social impacts of poverty 
on vulnerable populations and the broader society. Strategic approaches to poverty reduction will be explored along with the respective 
roles of the church, state and civil society in preventing, alleviating and reducing poverty. 
Prerequisite: DVST 210 or SO 220 

--- PAGE 134 ---
2025-2026 Ambrose University Academic Calendar 
 
122 
 
Note: This course is cross-listed as DVST 350  
 
BHS 399 Special Topics in Behavioural Science (3) O 
Special studies in Behavioural Science, as announced. 
Prerequisite: Permission of the department 
 
BHS 400 Behavioural Science Capstone (3) A 
An integrative capstone seminar based on the contributions of both sociology and psychology for understanding human behaviour. The 
course will integrate the method, academic content, and pragmatic application of those fields of knowledge to the social context of human 
behaviour and explore the ways this can lead to vocation and service in the world community. A variety of methodological, the oretical, 
and practical questions will be addressed. 
Prerequisite: Restricted to students in the BA: Behavioural Science (Concentration or Major) programs in their final 15 credi ts of study. 
Permission of the department required. 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BHS 404 Behavioural Science Educational Travel Study (3) O 
This course provides an introduction to international community development incorporating the disciplines of community psychology and 
the sociology of development. It involves pre-reading assignments as well as post-travel written assignments that allow students to apply 
both theoretical and practical understandings of international community development. The practical component of the course i nvolves 
volunteering for two weeks at a Two-Thirds World site, where students learn about community development first-hand. One of the main 
aims of the course is to help empower students to contribute to positive social change in both local and international communities. 
 
BHS 405 Special Topics in Behavioural Science (3) O 
Special studies in Behavioural Science, as announced. 
Prerequisite: Permission of the department 
 
BHS 410 Basic Multivariate Statistics (3–2L) A  
Multivariate analysis as applied to behavioural science. Correlation, simple and multiple regression, discriminant function a nalysis, 
canonical correlation, factor analysis, theories and applications of behavioural measurement, reliability, and validity will be presented. 
Prerequisite: BHS 240 and BHS 310 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BHS 420 BHS Field Placement 2 (3–3L) A 
Students continue a supervised field placement of an additional 125 hours with a community or social agency closely related to the 
student’s interest and/or future plans. Seminars will focus on the relationship between ethical issues and practical issues and models of 
ethical decision-making as related to the behavioural sciences. 
Prerequisite: BHS 240. Restricted to students in the BA: Behavioural Science (Concentration or Major) with a CGPA of not less than 2.0. 
Permission of the department required. 
 
BHS 450 Intersections between Poverty and Government Policy (3) B 
This course will examine the intersection of social policy and government. Students will discover how governments work, the r ole of a 
lobbyist, how a law is formed, how a law is passed and what happens after the law is passed. The impact of a law, both pos itive and 
negative consequences, will be considered. The course will look at current Canadian social programs to determine if they empo wer 
people to move out of poverty. It will examine competing theories of anti -poverty and a range of approaches to resear ch on poverty. 
Consideration will be given to welfare reform and alternative models such as Basic Income and Negative Income Tax. Students will visit 
the municipal council chambers to observe both council and standing policy committees. Finally, students will consider the structure of a 
National Poverty strategy. 
Prerequisite: BHS 350 
 
BIOCHEMISTRY 
BCH 297 Biochemistry (3-3L) A 
This course will encompass the structure and function of major biomolecules, such as carbohydrates, amino acids, proteins, li pids and 
nucleic acids, as well as energy transduction, enzyme mechanisms and regulation of metabolic pathways. The accompanying laboratory 
component will introduce some techniques commonly used in the study of biomolecules and enzymology. 
Prerequisite: BIO 131, BIO 211 and CHE 251 

--- PAGE 135 ---
2025-2026 Ambrose University Academic Calendar 
 
123 
 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BCH 357 Medical Pharmacology (3) O 
This course covers the physical and chemical properties of drugs, their biochemical and physiological effects, mechanisms of action, absorption, 
distribution, metabolism, elimination and adverse effects. With each classification of drugs covered, their mod e of action, their clinical effects 
and side effects will be emphasized. 
Prerequisite: BCH 297 
 
BCH 399 Special Topics in Biochemistry (3) O 
Special studies in Biochemistry, as announced. 
Prerequisite: Permission of the department 
 
BIOLOGY 
BIO 131 Introduction to the Cellular Basis of Life (3–3L) A 
This course will cover the fundamental principles of cellular biology including organelle structure and function, metabolism, genetics, cell 
division, protein synthesis, and molecular biology of eukaryotic cells. 
Prerequisite: Biology 30 or Chemistry 30 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BIO 133 Introduction to Plant and Organismal Biology (3–3L) A 
This course will comparatively survey the diversity of the major lineages of eukaryotic organisms – including vertebrate and invertebrate 
animals, plants, protists, and fungi. It will also discuss the ecological principles of organismal survival and interactions. 
Prerequisite: Biology 30 or Chemistry 30 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BIO 211 Principles of Genetics (3–3L) A 
This course explores the discovery, organization and behaviour of genes and chromosomes, as well as associated applications a nd 
technologies, through the lenses of Mendelian, molecular, and population genetics. 
Prerequisite: BIO 131 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BIO 213 Principles of Ecology (3–3L) A 
This course explores the central questions of ecology: what are the mechanisms influencing the abundance and distribution of species 
across time and space? Ecology will be explored from the level of the individual, population, community, and ecosystem, thr ough such 
topics as niche theory, organismal interactions, population dynamics, biodiversity assessments, and ecosystem services. 
Prerequisite: BIO 133 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BIO 231 Cellular and Molecular Biology (3–1T) A 
This course examines the principles of cellular structure and function, molecular organization, regulation of cellular functions, as well as 
the interaction of cells with neighbouring cells and their environment. 
Prerequisite: BIO 131 and BIO 211 
 
BIO 241 General Microbiology (3-3L) B  
Microbiology explores the biology of microorganisms, namely viruses, bacteria, unicellular and microscopicmulticellular eukaryotes. The 
course will review fundamental information about the biology of these organisms and will expand this knowledge base with  microbial 
genetics, diversity and ecology. The field of applied microbiology will also be explored in topics regarding health, industry  and the 
environment. The accompanying laboratory component will introduce a variety of laboratory techniques to identify microorganisms. 
Prerequisite: BIO 211, CHE 101, and CHE 103 
Note: A supplementary fee may be assessed to cover additional costs associated with this course. 
 
BIO 245 Research Methods in Biology (3) O 
An introduction to research in Biology with an emphasis on understanding the research process, including literature searches,  
experimental design, data collection, basic statistical knowledge, and its relationship to critical thinking. 
Prerequisite: BIO 131 and BIO 133  
